# Welcome to the free Prime Number API!

## About
---
Prime Number API, built using FastAPI, is a quick and free alternative to get basic information about prime numbers when directly generating this information becomes time-consuming. The API only accepts <code>GET</code> requests, but there's no authorization involved, so you can send as many requests as you like from anywhere!

This information is continually generated by calculating each prime number in order and then stored in a MongoDB database, which this API queries. This comes with some natural constraints, mainly that this API can only service queries about numbers that's already calculated. In general, the API will reject queries about numbers not yet calculated.

To learn more about this API and see live examples, check out the [documentation pages](https://prime-number-api-docs.onrender.com/).

## API Endpoints
---
This API has three endpoints.

- <code>/</code>
    - Return information about the API and the current maximum number it can service, based on what's available in the database
- <code>/checkIfPrime</code>
    - Given a query of integers, return a list of the given integers and, if prime, information about their prime-ness
- <code>/primeNumbers</code>
    - Return a list of unique prime numbers and their available information based on given parameters

## Set up your own Prime Number API
---
In this repository, you'll find all the code needed to set up the API itself, including a setup to build the API through Docker.

You will need to set up the following yourself for the API to do anything:
- a database of prime numbers
    - this repository currently uses MongoDB, so using another service would require redefinition of how the endpoints query the desired information
- environment configuration to allow the API to connect to your database

To build and host the API locally through Docker, enter the following command in your terminal open at the root project folder:

`docker-compose build && docker-compose up`

This will host the API at http://0.0.0.0:10000, or whichever address and port is set in the Dockerfile. You can then send any requests to the API at that web address.
